# Social Insects
This is the code repository for the social insect group at the Arizona State University QRLSSP Program. Included are a few different files to run simulations of ant interactions within a nest. Descriptions of each program along with how to interpret some of the analysis is included below. For some supplementary material, please read: 'In-nest information flow analysis of social ant colonies.'

## ant_grid
This program is an adaptation of the model in the paper 'Dynamics of social interactions, in the flow of information and disease spreading in social insects colonies: Effects of environmental events and spatial heterogeneity.' In this paper, ants are modeled on a grid following different movement patterns and having assigned tasks. Some ants will tend to move toward their assigned task zone while others move randomly. The simulation is meant to study the presence and specific shapes and locations of these task zones on the spread of an agent (either information or a pathogen) through the colony over time.

**Parameters:** At the top of the program you will see a number of parameters which can be set before running. Each of these are mostly self-explanatory but note that is a density other than 'N' is given, the N variable will not be used when generating the colonies. Also look at the list f = [sf for i in range(30)]. This value is the number of parallel colonies which are run. If your machine has a difficult time running this, try making the value lower. Once these values are set, you can run the program.

**Nest Drawing:** There are three drawing modes which can be swapped between by pressing 'T' for tunnels (default), 'W' for walls, and 'S' for sfzs. Click and drag anywhere in the window to draw a rectangle. Releasing the mouse will draw the object corresponding to the drawing mode and update the colony.grid attribute. Pressing 'Z' will undo these actions but note that there is no redo feature. Your final nest must be fully connected and have at least one sfz. When you are done drawing a nest, press the space bar to run the simulation for the number of time steps specified in the parameters.

**Figures:** When running, the first colony of the parallel colonies will be displayed (this can be changed by changing the view parameter). The simulation can be stopped early by exiting out of the pop-up window and still give the figures up to the last time step. If less than 50 ants were present in the colony, a directed network will appear showing an aggregate of interactions for the first colony over the time window. The colors correspond to the ants associated sfz and gray represents an ant with random walking style. As the program runs, we will also get motif counts of this network every 50 time steps printed to the terminal. Other figures will include: informed ant proportion over time in all colonies, average informed ant proportion across all colonies, average contact rate within task groups (Rw), average contact rate within task groups (Rb), final motif count bar chart, and spatial heterogeneity degree over time.

## results_viewer.py
To test the model on different nest structures, we ran the simulation on squares, chains, tunnels, and donuts of various sizes with densities of 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3 along with spatial fidelities of 0.2, 0.5, and 0.8. This makes for a total of 648 figures to look through. This program is meant to visualize these by choosing a structure and a control variable and then looking at how different figures change with respect to the other variables. The figures themselves are in the results folder but you can view them here by pressing 'S' for squares, 'D' for donuts, 'C' for chains, and 'T' for tunnels. From there, pressing the up and down arrows will move the control variable up and down and the left and right arrows will change which variable we are controlling.

## ant_nest
This was the initial graph-based model we wrote up. We decided that it would be difficult to run analysis on with our limited time frame so we went with our improved grid based model instead. We decided to leave it here in case it is of interest in the future.
